On February 3rd 2009 Tom Cable was named
head coach of the Oakland Raiders as
interim coach in 2008 he led the Raiders
to a foreign aid record the most wins by
a Raiders head coach since norv turner
'he's five wins in 2004 with only four
victories under his belt cable follows
in the footsteps of great Raider coaches
like art shel Tom Flores and John Madden
now in his first full season at the helm
he knows exactly who he wants to be just
on cable that's all I don't you know
when I was at college coaching that was
over with I wrote myself a letter and
you know what I would do next time a
number one thing was just be yourself
and you learn a lot from a lot of people
you know I admire guys like Bill
Parcells I admire that's like Vince
Lombardi I studied a lot about him Bill
Belichick in the game today Mike
Shanahan and those are all great great
coaches so you study them and you watch
them and all that but at the end of the
day you just got to be you and what did
that letter say to yourself have you
looked at that letter lately I read it
when I got this job and who is Tom Cable
someone who loves again and
you know most what it's about what it is
likes to have fun you know like to work
hard I think everything comes through
hard work just enjoy today that's the
most important thing tom cable was
coaching the Raiders offensive line last
year when Lane Kiffin was fired early in
the season despite the drama that has
surrounded the Raiders head coaching
position in recent years he didn't
hesitate when Al Davis offered him the
job working for him for you know a year
and four games I really did understand
that whole passion about just when and
what that means you know for me it was
an easy transition in terms of that it
it hasn't been the craziness or whatever
it is that I think people think can you
see the letter up there's been more this
is my issue how can I help him how can
he help me and not afraid to pick up the
cup phone and call him and ask him and
he's been great how do you get this team
how do you return it to what it once was
I think you ground it you know you get
it back to a fundamental stage of what
it is to succeed what does it take and
you know the last six weeks I thought we
really reached some of those things I'm
talking about we started play for each
other care about each other the
selfishness kind of dissipated we became
about you know when in the day that want
to know thing that I believe in and
playing for each other and doing it with
honor
what is your want to know philosophy win
the day whatever it is today be your
best today what's happened to past or
what is out there in the future does not
matter and if you win today you've done
enough having only averaged four wins a
year for the last six years winning the
day has become a challenge for the
Raiders many question if Tom Cable can
lead the Raiders back to the Super Bowl
he says the answers lie in the AFC West
I think for us to challenge for the
division I think that's reasonable our
goals aren't any different anybody else
is still in a Super Bowl which means to
get the playoffs which means you won
your division or close to it you know I
think the thing that it's most important
to me is becoming a factor in the AFC
West a real factor what's the thing that
you're most excited about when winning
without question I think the people of
Oakland are as hungry as we are as a
coach of staff and as a team to have
success you know I think that's the
biggest thing because this is a great
game no matter where you're at but it's
a lot of fun when you're winning and I
think that that's the thing that excites
me the most if we can do that now to
cable the Raiders are just as close to
winning a championship as any other team
the only difference is that for Oakland
to win they just need to keep it real we
all guard in place they all pay a lot of
money
we all got good coaches and so it's a
matter of you know taking the BS and
pushing that aside and then keeping it
real and what's real is trying to get a
championship win